This service is indicated with the at service annotation,
I'm auto wiring a location repository beam.
In here for retrieve all locations,
I'm simply calling the find all method on the location repository,
which is going to return a list of locations.
Next, let's talk about the location repository layer.
This is the layer that interacts with the database.
The spring data repository abstraction here crud repository,
it greatly reduces the amount of boilerplate code
needed to implement a data access layer for the H2 database.
So this uses the spring data GPA repository,
and it automatically creates simple queries behind the scenes using method names.
Notice this location repository isn't interface,
but there's no class anywhere that implements it.
That's the neat thing about spring,
it creates an implementation on the fly whenever the application runs.
Now, let's go back to the controller,
and let's look at our get all locations method one more time.
Notice, we're returning a list of locations,
but it's included in what's called this response entity.
Now, the response entity represents the entire HTTP response,
that includes the status code,
headers, and the response body.
We can fully configure what's returned.
Notice here, I'm returning an HTTP status of okay.
That means I was able to retrieve the data and everything went well.
In some cases, you may need to return air responses.
So for example, 404 for not found.
So in order to do that,
you can simply change this to not found,
I'm going to change it back to okay,
that was just an example.
So that is our rest API.
We have our location entities that live in the database,
we have the location repository that allows us to interact with the database,
using the crud repository to do things like read,
update, delete, create etc,
we have our service layer.
Here, this is typically where you put the business logic.
So for example, if we wanted to filter this list and remove clothes locations,
that business logic with live here in the service layer,
but here I'm just returning all of the locations,
and then we have our main controller.
So let's deploy and execute this.
Spring Boot packages the code and deploys it to
the embedded Tomcat server and we'll be able to access that using local hosts.
So Tomcat started on port 8080,
let's navigate to the web browser,
and let's navigate to the H2 in-memory console,
that's the first thing I want to show you.
So it's a local host/H2,
the JDBC URL from the application properties file,
the default username is sa,
there's no password, click "Connect".
Notice, we have a location table and that maps back to our location entity.
Click on it, let's select "Run",
and this shows the data that's persisted.
Remember, I had the data.SQL file to just generate sample data in our database.
Now, let's test out our API.
If you remember, here the path to test the API is slash location.
So let's do localhost: 8080 and type location. There we have it.
We have a list of the locations stored in our H2 in memory database,
and we were able to access that list through a RESTful API,
with the path of location.